well hezb leaders have met senior
officials from the Palestinian groups
Hamas and Islamic Jihad to discuss this
war with Israel the group has also been
holding funerals for Fighters killed in
exchanges across that border between
Israel and Lebanon let's bring in Zen
she's in bit yhun in southern Lebanon
near that Israeli border Z there's been
escalating fighting between Hezbollah
and Israel there what's the latest now
on the rules of engagement on that
front
well an escalation along the border but
still very much contained and limited to
the Border area if you can see the hills
behind me during the past half hour or
so Israel has been targeting uh that
those Hills which is the outskirts of
the Southern border Village of IUN this
cycle of violence is what we have been
seeing for over two weeks now Israel
retaliating at sources of fire and
Hezbollah mounting attack targeting
Israeli military positions along and
close to the border and we want to also
show you in a short while a funeral will
be underway of yet another Hezbollah
fighter killed um killed in the
confrontations with the Israeli Army 40
more than 40 since the start of this
conflict since Hezbollah heeded the call
of its Ally Hamas to join the battle
against Israel now a relatively High
casualty toll but there are reasons for
this Hezbollah is on the offensive it is
Hezbollah which is mounting mounting
attacks a very diff different U
situation then in 2006 during the last
war between the Israeli military and
Hezbollah when Hezbollah was really
defending positions and it's not just
that Hezbollah Fighters have had to
operate in open areas what they're
trying to do is limit the confrontation
to military targets and not for example
fire um or launch anti- tank missiles
from homes or or Villages so their
Fighters really are out in the open and
I can tell you 24/7 there are Israeli
surveillance aircraft in the skies that
leaves these Fighters really um easily
to in many ways easily be be targeted so
yet another Hezbollah funeral Hezbollah
fighter funeral which is expected to get
underway uh the clashes yes escalating
along the border but still very confined
in terms of
geography
I was understanding from our reporting
that there has been this meeting that
took place between Hezbollah Hamas
Islamic Jihad what do we know about what
was
discussed well Hezbollah released that
statement and a picture it did not say
when that meeting was held but you see
the Secretary General of Hezbollah
Hassan nah along with leaders from
Islamic Jihad and Hamas uh these three
groups really are allies part of the
so-called axis of resistance that is
backed by Iran Islamic Jihad and Hamas
also taking part in the in the attacks
against the Israeli Israeli positions uh
I can read to you part of their
statement they're saying that their
their assessment was made of the
international positions that are being
taken and what the AIS of resistance the
parties of the axis of resistance must
do to realize real Victory and halt the
brutal aggression against the
Palestinian people in Gaza now it's an
Open Secret that these groups coordinate
many observers will tell you this is
also part of the psychological warfare
not telling the Israeli Army what these
groups are going to do next we've heard
Hezbollah officials say that they are
part of this battle and they're ready to
be more involved if necessary and
Hezbollah also believes that its
military actions in the past two weeks
has really helped in in in the course
directing if you like the course of this
conflict because Israel has had to move
resources and divisions Army divisions
if you can see the body of the Hezbollah
fighter now arriving uh PR preparations
for the for the burial ceremony so
Hezbollah deputy secretary General
saying that their presence their
military activity along the border is
harassing the Israeli Army uh making it
more difficult as it needs to fight
between two separate
fronts and we're listening to that
gunfire there as that funeral continues
near the border with Israel and Southern
Lebanon there with all the latest for us
from the ground thank you
Z